I'm not gonna hurt you.
You just killed that man.
I just saved your life, again.
And I'm trying to save yours.
From whom?
From Morpheus.
Who's Morpheus?
Uh, Jeddy, can you give us a minute?
You're one of the missing Nightmares.
And you are the vortex.
If you know that,
then you know Morpheus is watching me.
You think he's watching you
so he can protect you?
He's watching you
because the minute you fall asleep
and start bringing the walls down
between people's dreams,
he's gonna kill you.
But if someone protected you,
kept him from killing you,
well, then you'd become
the center of the Dreaming.
He'd be powerless and I would be free.
Ah. Good Doctor.
Fifteen minutes till
our guest speaker's keynote address.
Uh, how did it go with Philip Sitz?
It went well.
You were missed.
-Did you find the boy?
-I did.
We talked.
He saw some grown-up things downstairs
that he didn't understand,
but I explained it to him.
He won't be a problem?
Nothing I can't handle.
I'll see you downstairs.
So, I'm gonna go downstairs for an hour.
Will you wait for me?
No. I'm taking Jed. We're going home.
Okay.
Yeah, you can go if you want,
but obviously it's not safe for you
to be wandering around the hotel.
And if you leave the hotel,
Dream's Raven will find you.
I'll tell you what.
This is your room.
You can have both keys.
I'll come back in an hour.
I'll knock.
If you want, you can let me in.
But if not, I'll go away.
Lock the door when I leave,
because you never know.
Our guest of honor's presence
here tonight is proof,
at least to me,
that dreams do come true.
He is a legend in his own lifetime,
an inspiration to us all,
one of the first and one of the best.
Gentlemen. Ladies.
The Corinthian.
I don't usually speak in public,
but the opportunity
to talk to so many people
who share the same passion,
the same dream,
well, it was just too good to pass up.
Because you are special people.
Very special people.
We are the American dreamers
driving down the holy road
of true knowledge
that's paved with blood and gold.
And across the length
and breadth of this fair country,
we are killing people.
We don't do it to make a living,
we don't do it for revenge.
We do not murder for profit.
We kill to kill.
We are entrepreneurs
in an expanding field.
But no one sees us
except for one weekend a year.
Well, I see you.
I see you for who you truly are.
And I want you to see it, too.
So just do me a favor.
Close your eyes.
And see yourselves as I do.
We are gladiators.
Conquerors.
-We are explorers…
-…truth seekers.
We are swashbucklers.
We are hunters.
Soldiers of fortune.
And kings of the night.
Jeddy, we have to go.
You disappoint me, Corinthian.
You and these humans
you've inspired and created…
disappoint me.
I've done my best to be what you made me.
No, you've done your worst,
which was in so many ways
what I had hoped.
You were my masterpiece.
A dark mirror made to reflect
everything humanity will not confront.
That's what I am.
That's what I've done.
No. Look at you,
walking this Earth for over a century
infecting others with your joy of death,
but what have you given them?
What have you wrought? Nothing.
Just something else
for people to be afraid of. That is all.
So what now?
You send me back into their dreams?
'Cause I won't go willingly.
And knife against a dream?
You don't think dreams can die?
-Let's find out.
-Enough.
How?
I've got
Rose Walker getting stronger
every second while you get weaker
She's taking your place
at the center of the Dreaming.
She's bringing the walls down
between the sleepers' minds
and now they're all dreaming
the same dream.
A dream that I inspired.
-No.
-It's already happening.
There's nothing you can do.
She's asleep and dreaming.
Then she's not beyond my reach.
Oh, I think she is.
Now that she knows
you're planning to kill her.
Jed, run!
You need to wake up.
Don't listen to him, Rosebud.
You're the one with power now,
not him. This is your dream.
It's his dream, for your world.
Then let's make it yours.
Whatever you want, Rose. A blank canvas.
Where's Jed?
Jed's fine.
He's upstairs, asleep.
He's right next to you.
This dream is yours now.
The Dreaming is yours now.
The Dreaming is yours.
Is that what he told you?
He told me you were gonna kill me.
Did he tell you why?
When a vortex brings down
the walls between dreams,
she creates a single volatile dream
that will collapse in upon itself,
and take the waking world with it.
Your world.
Everything and everyone will die.
-Don't believe him, Rosie.
-It's happened before.
I failed in my duty,
an entire universe was lost.
He can't kill you
if you kill him first.
Killing me may save your life,
but it won't save the lives
of those you love.
-I'm trying to keep you alive here.
-I'm trying to keep your world alive.
-You have to choose one of us, Rose.
-Enough!
If I'm as powerful as you say I am,
then I will find my own way.
In the meantime, the walls go back up.
Because I'm not dreaming anymore.
Thanks to you two, I'm wide awake.
If you think I'm going
back to the Dreaming with you--
You're not going back.
I brought you into this world
to serve humanity. Not to feed upon it.
Do you know why I do it?
So I can taste what it's like to be human.
And you don't care about humanity.
You only care about yourself
and your realm and your rules.
I contain the entire
collective unconscious.
Without my rules, it would consume me.
Humanity would be consumed.
Or you might actually feel something.
I am not the problem, Dream.
You're right.
This was my fault. Not yours.
I had so much hope for you.
But I created you poorly then.
So I must uncreate you now.
I am only sorry I won't be here
to see Rose Walker do the same to you.
Next time I make you,
you will not be so flawed
and petty, little Dream.
And you…
who call yourselves "collectors,"
until now, you have sustained fantasies
in which you are the victims,
comforting daydreams
in which you are always right.
But no more.
The dream is over.
I have taken it away.
For this is my judgment upon you,
that you shall know
from this moment on
exactly how craven and selfish
and monstrous you are.
That you shall feel the pain
of those you have slaughtered.
Hello, 9-1-1?
I'm calling to confess to a crime.
And the grief of those
that mourn them still,
and you shall carry
that pain and grief and guilt
with you until the end of time.
You want me to follow her?
No. When she is awake,
she is not a threat.
Tonight when she sleeps, I will find her.
And we will end this.
Can I ask a question?
Is Mom still sick, or…
I'm sorry, Jeddy.
She…
She passed away a few months ago.
You have to know though,
she never stopped trying to get you back.
Dad just didn't wanna let you go.
So, it's just you and me now?
No. No, actually.
We have a great-grandmother
who can't wait to meet you.
And my best friend Lyta,
who lives upstairs.
-She's calling you.
Hey! Guess who's in the car with me?
I don't want you to panic.
I'm at the hospital.
What?
The baby's coming. I'm in labor.
Oh, my God!
Is that Rose?
And Barbie and Ken and Hal are here.
We're taking good care of her, Rose.
-Chantal and Zelda are on the way.
-So are we, I promise.
Don't rush. Drive safely.
See you soon.
How is she? Is she okay?
I am sure she's fine,
but we are not family
so they're not telling us anything.
So, did you know she was pregnant?
Of course she knew.
You did know, didn't you?
Everyone, this is Jed.
-Jed! Hi.
-Hey, Jed!
Is that a real spider?
It used to be.
We have a vast collection
of arachnid taxidermy.
If you'd like to see?
Hey, Rose.
Uh, so she's still only three centimeters.
The doctor's with her now.
Oh, that, um, nurse told you that?
Yeah. Yeah. She's really nice.
Yeah, she looks really nice.
Uh, where's Gilbert?
He left a note saying he had to go home.
I thought he was with you guys.
Uh, no.
Well, is there anyone
we should call? Lyta's family?
Or the baby's daddy, whoever it is.
You don't have to tell us.
Who is he?
It's too late to call anyone right now.
Although…
Unity?
Good morning, darling.
I woke you up. I'm sorry.
Oh, Rose, the one thing I do not
need more of in my life is sleep.
Did you find Jed?
I did. He's safe.
But may I ask a favor?
Of course, darling. Anything!
If something were to
happen to me, hypothetically…
Nothing's going to happen to you.
If something did…
If I went to sleep tonight
and didn't wake up,
would Jed be able to come live with you?
I was going to suggest that you
and Jed both come and live with me.
You were?
Oh, Rose.
I often wonder what my life would have
been like had I not slept through it.
Would I have had a family,
and what must that be like?
Once you and Jed get here,
I won't have to wonder anymore.
You really are amazing. Do you know that?
It runs in the family.
Get some sleep.
I'm sorry I woke you. Sweet dreams.
Goodbye, love.
You okay?
Zelda has a reassuring moral homily
concerning God and difficult times,
and a variable number
of footprints in the sand.
She told it to me once
and it cheered me up remarkably.
Shall I ask if--
Excuse me. Are you Rose?
I'm sorry to put this on you right now.
Don't be.
I'm just afraid that tonight,
when I fall asleep…
Dream's gonna kill me.
He's not.
He said if he doesn't kill me
that the whole world will die.
Everyone.
Listen to me.
If this is true,
if you have the power
to destroy the world,
then you have the power to destroy him.
I don't want to destroy him.
I don't want any of this.
I'm afraid to fall asleep.
I'm afraid to wake up.
He should be afraid.
When you go to sleep tonight,
you have to find him and end this.
It's up to you, Rose.
You're in charge now. You're the vortex.
There is a vortex,
a true annulet,
a mortal with a dreaming ability
so powerful she can travel
through the dreams of others.
Be careful not to lose yourself in them.
Find your own path.
You think he's watching you
so he can protect you?
The minute you fall asleep
and start bringing the walls down
between people's dreams…
You have the power to destroy him.
He's gonna kill you.
-You're the vortex.
-Rose!
And this is the story he told.
It was a dark and stormy night.
And the skipper said to the mate,
"Mate, tell me a story."
And this is the story he told.
It was a dark and stormy night.
And the skipper said to the mate,
"Mate, tell me a story."
And this is the story he told.
It was a dark and stormy night.
And the skipper said to the mate,
-"Mate, tell me a story."
-Chantal?
-And this is the story he told.
-It's me. Rose.
It was a dark and stormy night.
And the skipper said to the mate,
-"Mate, tell me a story."
-Here, let me.
And this is the story he told.
It was a dark and stormy night.
And the skipper said to the mate,
"Mate, tell me a story."
And this is the story he told.
-It was a da--
-In September of the year 1811,
a post chaise drew up
before the door of Aswarby Hall
in the heart of Lincolnshire.
The little boy, who jumped out
as soon as it had stopped,
looked around him.
Caution, Princess Barbara,
I scent strangeness in the air.
What manner of they, Martin Tenbones?
The Cuckoo? The Hieromancer?
Colonel Knowledge?
None of those.
Something is happening, my princess. Look.
Ken?
What are you doing at
the Place of Lost Carnadine?
Oh, shit.
Oh, my God.
Come, Martin Tenbones. We must away.
What are you all doing here?
Babe. Th-This is not what it looks like.
Uh, I mean…
-Oh, dear.
Oh, my God.
What's happening?
It's me. I'm sorry. But it's just a dream.
You just have to wake up. Right now.
-Rose!
-Rose, please!
Rose!
Rose, why are you doing this?
I can't stop it. You have to wake up.
Please, I'm begging you.
It was a dark and stormy night…
A post chaise…
"Tell me a story."
Zelda!
Rose!
-Hal!
-I found you!
-Hal, hold on.
-Don't let go!
Hal!
Rose, I'll save you!
No, Jed, stay back.
-I'll save you!
-No!
-Rose! Rose!
-Jed!
-Rose!
Jed!
You've caused a great deal of damage.
Nothing that I cannot repair,
at least at this stage.
What happened to Jed? To my friends?
They're asleep in their bed,
but they're not safe. No one is.
Not until the vortex is dead.
May I help you?
Oh, yes, please. I-I'm looking for a book.
We have every book ever written,
as well as those yet unwritten.
I'm looking for the story of my life,
had things turned out differently.
I have detailed accounts
of sleepers' dreams.
No. No, thank you. I've had
more than my fair share of dreams.
I want to read about my unlived life.
I'm not entirely sure
we have those volumes.
If you have every book ever written,
and every book that ever will be written,
it must be around here somewhere.
Oh, there I am.
You're Unity Kincaid?
Rose Walker is your great-granddaughter?
Yes.
How do you know Rose?
Death is not always such a bad thing.
You could stay here if you like.
My raven was once a mortal.
Wait! Sir!
Gilbert? What are you doing here?
This is Fiddler's Green.
You? You're a Dream?
I am.
I, I left my post here
to experience life as a human being.
A life which I humbly offer
in exchange for yours.
I'm afraid that's not possible.
For the Dreaming
and the waking world to live,
the vortex must die.
Then what's the point of a vortex?
Why do we even exist?
Honestly…
I have a theory.
When a human is at
the center of the Dreaming,
is it not to remind us
that we exist because humans dream,
not the other way around?
The miracle of humanity itself
should always be more vivid to us
than any marvels of power.
I cannot find it in my heart
to punish you for leaving Fiddler's Green.
But it is time you took up
your appointed position once more.
It would be my honor, sir.
It was never my intention
to abandon my role.
What was your role? Who were you?
Oh, my dear, Fiddler's Green
is not a "who," it is a where.
I was not a person. I was a place.
And, after your death,
if you stay in the Dreaming, visit me.
Walk in my meadows and my green glades.
Rest beneath my trees.
Farewell, Rose Walker.
It was a privilege being human with you.
I do not wish to take your life.
But we all have responsibilities
and this is one of mine.
I am sorry.
Just do it.
Whatever it takes
to save my brother and my friends.
I'm ready.
My lord, stop.
Unity?
This is Unity Kincaid.
I am Rose's great-grandmother.
And according to this book,
I was meant to be the vortex of this age.
But because you were imprisoned
and locked out of the Dreaming,
that fate was handed down
to my descendants.
I don't understand.
You're not very bright, are you?
Come here, Rose.
I want you to reach down inside yourself
and give me whatever it is
that makes you the vortex.
But h-how?
You're dreaming, darling.
Anything is possible.
This?
Oh, thank you, Rose, love.
I'm the vortex now, Dream King,
as I should have been long ago.
So, leave my great-granddaughter alone.
Unity?
What happened?
You died. So that Rose might live.
I'm so sorry.
No, don't be. I'm not.
I was meant to have died
a long time ago, Rose.
But if I had,
I would never have met my golden-eyed man
and we would never have
had our beautiful baby girl,
and you would not have been born.
Wait, the father of your child
had golden eyes?
I've never seen anything like them.
I have.
Goodbye, Rose, darling.
Mr. Holdaway will see to it
that you and Jed have everything you need.
You and your brother
are children of the Endless.
You have suffered enough.
You may leave this place.
Goodbye, Rose.
He's really strong.
He won't let go of my finger.
He's perfect.
We're gonna do this together, right?
We already are. Right, little man?
I'm your Auntie Rose.
And this is your cousin, Jed.
Hello, little baby.
Have you decided on a name?
I thought about
naming him after Hector, but…
there is only one Hector for me.
And this baby deserves his own name.
You ever notice how people
only ever use your name
when you're in trouble?
Rose?
That's true, actually.
See? So, as long as you don't have a name,
you can't get in any trouble.
My turn.
Prepare yourself. He's pretty cute.
Oh, we are ready.
It's one at a time.
Wha… Oh, come on. Babe!
Baby, it was just a dream.
How are they doing?
Great.
The hospital's releasing them tonight
and then we'll fly home tomorrow.
Oh, so soon?
To New Brunswick.
How far is that from New York?
Mm, less than an hour. Why?
I don't know, I had this dream last night
and now I'm thinking,
what if I sell the house and move back?
We'll buy the house.
Desire.
I stand in my gallery
and I hold your sigil.
Talk to me.
Why, sweet Dream. This is a surprise.
-Almost an event, I might say.
-Good.
I'm coming through.
You are?
But of course.
You know you're always
welcome in my chambers.
Lovely to see you.
Can I get you anything you desire?
I desire nothing from you,
save some answers.
Ooh, is this a test?
Unity Kincaid should've
been the vortex of this era.
But someone took advantage
of my imprisonment
and fathered a child with her,
knowing full well
that it would become the vortex,
and I would be forced to kill it.
Was I really that obvious?
No.
You covered your tracks remarkably well.
Well, that's high praise coming from you.
What did you truly intend?
That I should spill family blood?
With all that would entail?
This time it almost worked.
My sibling.
We of the Endless are the servants
of the living, not their masters.
We exist only because they know
deep in their hearts that we exist.
We do not manipulate them.
If anything, they manipulate us.
And you and Despair,
and even poor Delirium
would do well to remember that.
Mess with me or mine again
and I shall forget you are family.
Do you believe yourself
strong enough to stand against me?
Against Death?
Against Destiny?
No.
Remember that next time you're
inspired to interfere in my affairs.
Oh, poor Dream.
I really got under your skin
this time, didn't I?
Next time, I'll draw blood.
My lord.
Sorry to disturb you
when you're working, but…
Is something wrong?
No, it's something lovely, actually.
A new book appeared in the library
this morning written by Rose Walker.
And how is it?
You may take issue with the depiction
of the king in the story, but…
I loved it.
She is a daughter of the Endless
with quite a story to tell.
-Rosie, send it.
It's really good.
Come eat. Dinner's here. Let's go.
Are you making new Nightmares
to replace Gault and the Corinthian?
The world does not need
a new Corinthian quite yet.
In fact…
will you keep this somewhere safe for me?
I am finishing a Dream.
I'll leave you to it, then.
Lucienne.
Do you not wish to say hello?
You look gorgeous, Gault.
Thank you, Lucienne.
May I ask what made you
change your mind about me, sir?
I had no right returning here
after over a century
expecting everything
to be just as I left it.
Lucienne tried to tell me that.
So did you.
But now I'm listening.
Or trying to.
New Dreams.
New Nightmares.
A new age.
Thank you, sir.
I might be here awhile.
Would you mind
taking care of things while I work?
With pleasure, sir.
Your Majesty.
Shall I ring for your attendants
to help you dress?
There are several demon battles
scheduled for your entertainment.
I can think of nothing I'd enjoy less.
In which case
Lord Azazel would like a word.
Except that.
Then I will
be brief, Your Majesty.
Azazel, how like you
to arrive without an invitation.
I come at the bidding of
the assembled Lords of Hell.
You've stopped fighting each other
long enough to assemble?
We have, against your enemy,
our enemy, Dream of the Endless.
The armies of Hell are yours to command,
should you wish to strike.
You wish to invade the Dreaming?
If you command it.
And then perhaps the waking world?
And one day, even the Silver City.
Precisely.
Since none of us may leave Hell,
we may as well expand its borders
until Hell is all there is.
You have given us
much to think about, Azazel.
I would ask
you do more than think.
The generals demand action.
Do they?
Then I shall act. You may tell them.
Excellent.
Good day, Your Majesty.
He is not to be trusted.
No, but he's not wrong.
Then, may I ask, what are you going to do?
Something that I have never done before.
Something that will
make God absolutely livid…
and bring Morpheus to his knees.
Lucifer! Lucifer!